♪ Every case in the forest ♪
♪ Is challenging and difficult ♪
♪ Detective Toby and Teri ♪
♪ Will find the answer ♪
♪ We're the best case solvers ♪
♪ Detective Toby and Teri ♪
♪ We are the best partners ♪
LITTLE DETECTIVES
TOBY & TERI
-[laughter]
-Come on, Teri! Go, go, go!
[Teri panting]
[Millie]
Whoo! Yeah!
[laughs]
Come on!
Yay! Great jump!
That's how you play puddle jump.
Okay, Toby, your turn.
The Big Kahuna.
Here goes nothing.
-Wow!
-Great jump!
[camera clicks]
[laughs]
Cool.
Okay, my turn now. Watch.
[yelling]
-[groans]
-[splash]
[head rattles]
I'll never get over it.
Sure you will.
You just need to keep trying.
[Rumy panting]
Hey, everybody,
you gotta come see.
I got a new jar of water
for my collection.
-Wow!
-All right!
Wow! That's really cool, Rumy.
That's the nicest jar of water
I've ever seen.
[laughs]
Thanks.
It's going to be perfect
for my collection.
That's right. You collect water
from all over the world.
I do. I sent water
from Acorn Springs to friends,
and they send me water
from where they live.
Rumy has water
from the world's biggest lake
and now from
the longest river, too.
And water from a hot springs,
but I don't open that one.
It smells like rotten eggs.
Ooh! I wanna smell it!
[chuckles]
No, you really don't.
Hey, you guys wanna see
my whole collection?
-Okay.
-Sure.
-Totally.
-Come on. Follow me.
Welcome to my water collection.
With the help of friends
from all over,
I've collected water
from every corner of the world.
[chuckles]
Take this water, for example.
What water?
Bean's right.
There's no water in that jar.
Wait.
There's no water in any of them!
They're all empty!
[gasps]
M-M-My water is gone!
W-Where did it go?
What am I going to do?
All the jars were filled with water when
you showed them to me last week.
Maybe someone spilled them.
Let me check for fingerprints.
I don't think anyone
would have touched them,
because I wrote,
"Rumy's water. Do not touch,"
and, "Please," on every jar.
Just one print on this one,
but it's Rumy's.
Hmm, so nobody touched the jars?
Then where did the water go?
Sounds like we've got a case.
Will you excuse us?
To the treehouse!
[camera clicks]
Rumy really loves
his water collection.
It took him months
to put it together.
-We've gotta get it back.
-There's a lot at stake.
There always is, little brother.
There always is.
Let's do this.
♪ Looking for clues ♪
♪ Check the scene ♪
♪ Any cases ♪
♪ Little detectives ♪
♪ Can solve it ♪
[together]
Let's ace this case!
So, Millie, you're saying
you were the last one
to see the water?
Yes. That's right.
And when was that, exactly?
It was three days ago.
When Rumy showed you the collection,
you said there was still
water in the jars, yes?
There was. I remember,
because I opened up the jars
so Millie could touch the water.
Right. So you touched the water?
How did that feel?
Uh, wet?
Of course. Heh. Sorry.
I knew that. All water is wet.
Wait. That could be a clue.
If all the water
in Acorn Springs
is like Rumy's water,
then I wonder
if it's disappearing, too.
Where else
have we seen water today?
-The puddles!
Come on.
[laughs]
I did it!
Wow! You really flew that time.
It wasn't even close.
Guys, Bean jumped
over the Big Kahuna!
That's really great, Bean.
Amazing!
Thanks.
But now that I
look at the Big Kahuna,
it doesn't look so big anymore.
You're right. This morning,
it was almost to that tree.
[gasps]
All the puddles are smaller.
Wait. First someone takes all
the water from my collection,
and now they steal
the Big Kahuna?
Who would do that?
We don't know
what happened yet Rumy,
and remember, there were
no fingerprints on the jars.
Then where is the water going?
And where does it end?
If someone is taking all
the water in Acorn Springs,
that would be really bad,
especially if you're a fish.
-Boots!
[sighs]
He's okay.
And all his water
is right where it should be.
So let's follow the facts.
The water
in Boots's tank is fine.
But the water in the puddles
is disappearing.
So how is the fish tank
different from the puddles?
The fish tank has a lid on it.
Sure, but Rumy's jars
all have lids, too.
They do, but Rumy
took off the lids so Millie
-could touch the water.
-Right.
But didn't Rumy say he
left the lid on one of his jars?
Yes, the stinky one.
So one jar is still closed,
just like the fish tank.
If we follow the facts,
the stinky water
should still be there.
Let's find out.
[all sighing]
Did you guys find
Rumy's water yet?
Not yet. We're still
looking for more clues.
Rumy, do you have the jar
of water from the hot springs?
Sure.
-[water sloshes]
-Hey!
It's still got water in it!
No one's stealing
the stinky water.
I think there's another reason
this water's still here.
Rumy never
took the lid off this one.
Only the water that's open
to the air is disappearing.
-Like the puddles!
-That's right, Bean.
Okay, let's follow the facts.
Rumy took the lids off
his water collection last week,
and now all the water is gone.
And the puddles
were there this morning,
but got smaller
by the afternoon.
As the day got warmer,
the puddles got smaller.
The water that's open to the air
is going somewhere...
and I think I know where.
-Where?
I can explain,
but I think it'll be easier
-from the top of that mountain.
-Then let's get climbing.
Nobody took your water, Rumy,
and nobody took our puddles.
Look at Acorn Springs.
We can see the pond
and the spring and the ocean.
But where's my water
and the water from the puddles?
It's in the air around us.
When the sun is out
and air is dry,
drops of water
are pulled into the air.
It's called evaporation.
So when I left the lids
off my jars,
the water floated away
a little at a time
until it was all gone?
It's not gone.
When there's
enough water in the air,
it turns into clouds.
Clouds are full of water.
Look at that big one
coming our way.
[Toby] That cloud holds the water
from your collection, Rumy.
Yep, your water went up
into the air as evaporation,
and now it's gonna
come back down as rain.
Wow.
I think it's
gonna start raining soon.
You're right.
We better go before we get wet.
-Quick!
-Hurry!
-Let's go!
-Come on!
The rain filled up my jars.
Look at them all.
-[cheering]
-[laughs]
I'm so happy
all your water is back, Rumy.
Me, too!
And that water is
from every lake, ocean,
and river in the world.
Your collection is even better
than it was before.
I know! It's amazing!
Oh, you know what?
Maybe our puddles
are back, too. Come on.
I'm gonna jump the Big Kahuna
for real this time.
Okay, Bean.
Show us how it's done.
You can do it, Bean!
[gasps]
I can't watch.
Hah!
I did it!
-[cheering]
-[laughs]
Whoo! Good job, Bean!
I knew you could do it.
[laughs]
-All right!
-Whoo! Yay!
Everybody say, "Puddles"!
-Puddles!
So Rumy's water
didn't really disappear.
Nope. No water does.
Just like our puddles,
Rumy's water went into the air
and came back as rain.
Time to close this case.
♪ Finding clues ♪
♪ We solved the case ♪
♪ Follow the facts ♪
♪ The case is now solved ♪
♪ We are detective Toby and Teri ♪
[together] "The Case
of the Wandering Water"
is officially closed.
Ta-da!
Huh?
Is everybody ready
for tomorrow's talent show?
You're darn tooting.
Rumy's got himself
a regular hoedown planned,
Jay's fixing
to show us some magic,
Bean's juggling,
and we all gonna do
some old-fashioned
cowboy rope tricks.
But what about you?
What do you reckon
your talent's gonna be?
Mm, I'd love to sing a song,
but I can't sing
in front of everyone.
Sure you can. All you gotta do
is get up onstage and sing.
I'm scared to.
I'm just not a very good singer,
but I wish--
Oh, never mind. I gotta go.
[Bean]
Is Millie okay?
Yeah. Seems like she just wants
to be alone, just for now.
[sighs]
I wish I could just take
the stage and sing a song.
♪ La la, la la la,
la la, la la ♪
What was I thinking?
If I got up onstage,
everyone would laugh at me.
♪ La la, la la la,
la la, la la ♪
Who's out there? Hello?
You sang the same tune I did.
♪ La la, la la la,
la la, la la ♪
[singer] ♪ La la,
la la la, la la, la la ♪
Your voice is beautiful.
Try some harmony.
[together] ♪ La la,
la la la, la la, la la ♪
[gasps] Will you sing with me
in our talent show?
I'm afraid to sing onstage,
but if you were there,
I think I could do it.
Wait. Where'd you go?
[groans]
What am I gonna do?
I've just gotta find
that singer.
She has the most beautiful voice
I've ever heard.
If she sang with me, I know I'd have
the courage to sing in our show.
But she disappeared when you asked
her if she wanted to sing onstage?
Yes. It's always been
my dream to sing onstage
and sing with a partner,
like my absolute
favorite singers,
Patty and Polly Wannakracher.
They only sing together,
and it sounds amazing!
You've just gotta
find that singer.
Sounds like we've got a case.
Will you excuse us?
To the treehouse!
[camera clicks]
Millie really wants
to sing in the talent show.
But only if the mystery singer
will sing with her.
Which means we've gotta find her.
There's a lot at stake.
There always is, little brother.
There always is.
Let's do this.
♪ Looking for clues ♪
♪ Check the scene ♪
♪ Any cases ♪
♪ Little Detectives ♪
♪ Can solve it ♪
[together]
Let's ace this case!
Okay, Millie,
we're definitely gonna find
your singing partner.
All we've gotta do is follow the facts,
beginning with where you were
when you heard
your mystery singer.
I was here,
and the mystery singer was...
over there in the trees.
-[bush rustles]
-Oh.
[Jay] Hey! Hello! Excuse me!
Do you sing? Are you a singer?
Oh, I have a beautiful voice.
Listen.
♪ Hee honk, hee honk! ♪
Wow. Thanks for that.
Millie, is that
the beautiful singing you heard?
It's not,
but that was beautiful.
It was just beautiful
in a different way, but thanks.
Anytime. It's a gift.
But he definitely
wasn't Millie's mystery singer.
Whoever is must have
left some evidence behind.
You'd think
there'd be footprints,
but there aren't any.
So Millie's mystery singer
has a beautiful voice,
can move through the forest
without leaving footprints.
How can someone
not leave footprints?
Yeah. Don't everyone's feet
touch the ground?
I mean, if your feet didn't touch
the ground, you'd have to be...
um...
Oh, you'd be a bird, like me.
Never mind.
But you're right, Jay.
If we use the clues,
Millie's singing partner
is a bird.
There are so many birds
in the forest.
How will we know
which one is Millie's singer?
Let's start the auditions.
♪ Bwaak ♪
♪ Huhh ♪
♪ Heehh ♪
♪ Hoo hoo ♪
Oh! [gasps]
Hey, do you
wanna sing for Millie?
Wait! Don't run away!
It's a mockingbird.
I wonder if there's a reason
she didn't audition.
Let's see what she has to say.
Excuse me. Hello?
We just want to ask you
some questions.
Thanks.
This won't take a second.
We were wondering-- Why didn't
you want to audition?
We saw you watching
from behind the tree.
Well, to tell you the truth--
Do you sing?
Millie's looking for whoever
sang with her this morning.
-[sighs]
-She wants whoever that was
to be in our big talent
show tomorrow.
Yeah, up onstage
singing in front of everyone!
Sing with her onstage? Oh, no.
I'm not good enough
to sing onstage. Goodbye.
[groans]
We're never gonna find
my singing partner.
I think maybe we just did.
Mockingbirds are famous
for copying any sound
or song they hear,
which is what
your mystery singer did, right?
Yes, but if the mockingbird
really is
the beautiful singer I heard,
why would she be afraid
to sing onstage?
Maybe she doesn't know how good
a singer she is, just like you.
But I think I know how to convince
her to sing in the show.
But we scared her away.
How will find her
and get her to come back?
I think she'll come back
if Millie sings.
With everyone listening?
I don't know.
That's really embarrassing.
You can do it, Millie.
Yeah. We'll be right over here
behind these bushes.
You won't even know we're here.
Would it be okay
if I record you both singing?
I guess so. But why would you want to?
I don't know.
Just for fun, I guess.
Now all you have to do is coax
the mockingbird out of hiding.
You can do it.
[sighs]
Okay. Here goes.
Here I am all by myself,
just like this morning.
Nobody here but me.
♪ La la, la la la,
la la, la la ♪
[together] ♪ La la,
la la la, la la, la la ♪
Wow! They're really good.
It's the most beautiful sound
I've ever heard.
I can't believe that's Millie.
And with this recording,
we can show Millie
and the mockingbird
-just how good they really are.
-Great idea.
Come on. Let's go talk to them.
So Millie, I know
you and the mockingbird
don't wanna sing in the show.
I'm not a very good singer.
-Neither am I.
-It's okay. You don't have to.
I've found
someone else to sing.
You want to hear them?
You can tell us if they're any good.
-Sure.
-Of course.
♪ La la,
la la la, la la... ♪
Whoever that is
can really sing.
Yeah, it's really beauti--
Wait. Is that...
-us?
-Us?
Yup. That's what you two
sound like to all your friends.
[overlapping chatter]
I think
your voice is beautiful.
I think yours is, too.
You guys sound great.
Oh, you just have to sing
in the talent show.
I will if you will.
Okay. Let's sing.
-[cheering]
-Good going, guys!
[Millie]
Thank you,
and welcome to the first annual
Acorn Springs Talent Show!
We have some really amazing
acts for you today.
We hope you enjoy our duet.
♪ La la, la la la,
la la, la la ♪
[mockingbird]
♪ La la, la la la ♪
-[audience gasping]
-♪ La la, la la ♪
[together] ♪ La la,
la la la, la la, la la ♪
♪ La la, la la la,
la la, la la ♪
♪ La la, la la la, la la... ♪
Okay, say--
Wait. Don't say, "Sing."
Just sing.
♪ La ♪
[camera clicks]
It takes courage
to sing in front of anyone,
even your friends.
New things are always easier
when you don't have to try them alone.
And now Millie
and the mockingbird
both know
how great they sound.
Time to close this case.
♪ Finding clues ♪
♪ We solved the case ♪
♪ Follow the facts ♪
♪ The case is now solved ♪
♪ We are detective Toby and Teri ♪
[together] "The Case
of the Mysterious Melody"
is officially closed.